Record list
This list is always located at the left section, regardless of the view you're currently in.

It constantly observes the output directory so every capture will show up here as soon as the capture has finished.
This also includes every OCAT or Presentmon capture you put into that directory.
At the bottom of that list you can see and change the CPU, GPU and RAM description and add a custom comment to every capture.
Also you can edit the game name, since the process name is used as default. This gets saved in a textfile that is being compared with a list we update with every new version of CapFrameX to add new games that aren't already on your list. 


Global menu
Located at the top right corner(three dots)

Moving average window size = The number of frames that are used for the average line in the frametime chart.(Analysis View)
Stuttering factor = The factor a frametime has to be above average to be counted as stutter.(Analysis View)
Observed directory = The directory in which your captures are saved and also where you can put your OCAT/Presentmon captures.
FPS values rounding digits = The number of decimals for the FPS values
Screenshot directory = The directory in which your screenshots are saved.


Capture View
Here you can set your capture hotkey, the capture time(0=unlimited) and the response sounds.
An info text at the top always informs you what's going on with the capture service and also tells you what to do in certain situations.
For more detailed information about the capture events, you can take a look into the log which can be expanded from the bottom.

How to make a capture
The process you want to capture has to be present in the "Running processes" list. This list automatically lists all running processes from which frametimes can be captured.
For the easiest way of just getting into a game and pressing the hotkey to start a capture, this list may only contain one single process, otherwise the service won't know which process you want captured.
If you have more than one process detected, you can still select the one you want and capturing will work just fine.
However you wouldn't want to tab out of your game to do this. This is where the ignore list comes into play.
With the arrow buttons you can add or remove any process from the ignore list, the ideal scenario is a completely empty running processes list at the start of CapFrameX.
With this, you can just start your game and since it'll be the only process in the list, just push the hotkey.

The ignore list already includes many of the most common processes and, just like the list for the game names, gets updated with our ignore list with every new Version of CapFrameX.



Analysis View
This is where you can analyse the captures you made one by one.
For the graphs you can choose between frametime graphs, FPS graphs and L-shapes.
Below that you have your performance parameters like min, max, avg and percentiles.
You also have a pie chart which shows the amount of time you had stuttering, meaning frametimes above 2.5x average(default).
At the bottom is a toolbar where you can change the performance parameters, adjust the Y-axis for the frametimes, remove unusual outliers from the graphs and activate a cutting mode.
Also at the top you have a screenshot button to save the view(without the record list) as a png file.



Comparison View
Here you can compare multiple records.
With a double-click from the record list you can add the captures to the comparison list and with a click on the comparison list entry you can select them in the record list. With the button at the end you can remove them all from the list.

The first tab shows you the records as bar charts.
If you compare records from just a single game, this game is set as a title above the diagramm. If you compare records from multiple games, the names are labeled on the bars.
In addition you have an adjustable context for each record.
At the bottom is a toolbar where you can change the sorting and adjust the displayed metrics aswell as the context.
The "Grouping" toggle switches between two sorting modes:
off-> all records are sorted by FPS
on-> records are sorted by game, then by FPS

The second tab shows you the frametime graphs and L-shapes.
You can highlight the graphs with a mousover in the comparison list and also change their color or hide them.
The toolbar now shows you the options to activate the cutting mode and the context legend for the frametime graphs. The context setting is shared between the two tabs.
 

Graph Control
(add OxyPlot manual here)

Report View
This is a simple view where you can add your records to see all the relevant parameters all at once. You can also just copy them with a right-click to add them into any other programm. This is also possible for the graphs and performance parameters in the single record view.

Synchronization View
This view shows you the quality of your synchronization methods like FreeSync or G-Sync.
If they are working properly, the lines for "frametimes" and "Display changed times" should align pretty well, this means your monitor works at the adaptive refresh rate of your GPU.
At the bottom you can see the distribution of the refresh times and beside it another pie chart which shows the number of dropped frames.